# Automated Testing
This directory contains the automated testing framework for Quail. The testing
library used is Pytest. To get started, first generate the autogenerated tests,
then run `pytest` in the test directory.
```
cd test/end_to_end
python generate_tests.py
cd ..
pytest
```

## Organization
The test directory is split into two directories, `component` and `end_to_end`, which
represent component-level and end-to-end tests respectively.
 - Component-level tests will test only a small component of Quail. These will
   generally include things like unit tests and integration tests.
 - End-to-end tests will test a full run through the code. This means calling
   the Quail executable with an input file, performing iterations, and comparing
   the result stored in the output file.
## Guidelines
Some guidelines are established to keep the testing framework uniform and easy
to update when changes to the code are made. Straying from these guidelines may
cause tests to run unsuccessfully or give errors.

General guidelines for all tests are as follows.
 - Add Pytest markers to your test to be able to distinguish tests and run
   specific sets of tests. For example, running only tests marked as `dg` can be
   done with:
```
   cd test/
   pytest -m "dg"
```
   Additionally, boolean expressions may be used to match markers:
```
   pytest -m "one_d and dg not splitting"
```
 - When a new marker is defined, it must be added to the `pytest.ini` file with
   a brief explanation.
 - Creation of test data should be performed in a `conftest.py` file using a
   Pytest fixture instead of being performed in each test. This allows code
   reuse (allowing multiple tests to be performed on the same fixture) and also
   separates the creation of test data from the function of the test itself,
   improving modularity and maintainability of test code.

### Component-Level Tests
Guidelines for component-level tests are as follows.
 - All test files begin with `test_`, followed by the rest of the file
   name. For example, the test file for `basis.py` would be `test_basis.py`.
 - The test files in directory `test/component/` should look identical to the `src/`
   directory. For example, to test something in `src/numerics/basis/basis.py`,
   this test should be placed in `test/component/numerics/basis/test_basis.py`.

### End-to-End Tests
Guidelines for end-to-end tests are as follows.
 - Each test case directory must be added to `list_of_cases.py` along with a
   list of markers for the test case.
 - Each test case directory should contain only one input file, and it should be
   named `input_file.py`.
 - When a new test case is added or existing cases are modified,
   `regression_data_generator.py` must be run to regenerate the regression test
   data, and `generate_tests.py` must be rerun to recreate the test scripts.
 - If a future update to Quail changes the solution in any existing test case
   such that it does not pass the regression test, it is likely that a bug may
   have been introduced to the code (this is how new bugs are caught by
   regression tests). However, if you make a change to the code that changes
   solutions and you are comfortable with this change (for example, fixing a bug
   in Quail) then the regression test data should be updated by rerunning
   `regression_data_generator.py`.
